 Hello and welcome to this webinar which is titled Elevating Data Intelligence, a panel discussion on the intersection of data and AI. It's brought to you by Databricks with guest speakers from Informatica, Emuda, and Data IQ. I'm Antaila Director of Content Strategy with CIO Marketing Services and your host for this discussion. Artificial intelligence technologies are attracting a great deal of attention. For example, IT leaders are overwhelmingly placing AI-enabled solutions at the top of their investment list for 2024. This is according to the Foundry's CIO Tech Bowl. And specific to generative AI, only 8% said they have zero interest in it. But our expectations too high, our organizations really ready to deploy Gen AI. Our experts today will talk about some of the trends, the use cases, and the challenges that IT leaders have around data and AI, such as data privacy and security. They're also going to share best practices for leveraging a data foundation to optimize your efforts. Let me introduce our speakers. Robin Sutara is the field CIO at Databricks. Robin, thanks so much for being here. Thank you, Anne. What's joining us is Rick Tandanyl. He is the Global Vice President, Ecosystem and Technology with Informatica. Rick, thanks for being here. Thanks for having me. Chris Brown is the public sector CTO at Immuda. Welcome, Chris. Thank you. Happy to be here. And Connor Johnson is the field CTO with Data IQ. Connor, welcome. Awesome. Thanks, Anne. Thank you all. So before we get started, I want to remind our viewers that there is some great information about our topic in the Resources section of console. Just click the green resources button to view them and download the content. And now I'm going to turn the controls over to Robin to lead the panel discussion. Thank you so much, Anne, really looking forward to this amazing phenomenal panel that you've pulled together to have this conversation. Robin Sutara field TDO with Databricks. I get the amazing privilege to like many on the phone to work with dozens and dozens of our customers as they're thinking about this generative AI thing that they're trying to implement. As Anne mentioned, more than 90% of customers are really rethinking their data platform, the foundations that they have in place to be able to execute against an AI strategy that's aligned with the data foundations. And interestingly, I think Databricks has been in the data in AI space for quite a while. We are the leaders when it comes to the lake house. In fact, recently for us to announce that we were the leader as far as creating the standards and foundations of a lake house paradigm. Last year, we made the announcement at our data in AI Summit in June about the data intelligence platform, which we believe is the next category of platforms to be able to enable organizations to leverage data and AI. And many on the phone are our partners who are collaborating and working with us in that space to help our customers be successful across those aspects. And so from our perspective, I think there's two facets to data intelligence that we're going to sort of talk about today. I think the first is how do you make sure intelligence is built into the platform? So how are we as technology providers making sure that we have AI integrated into the platforms to help our customers leverage the technology to the best of their capabilities? How do we make sure that it's helping with things like security, privacy, governance, policy controls, etc. And the other is helping and power enable our customers to be able to do their own AI because the power of most organizations is their data. And that is truly their unique value proposition. And so much of what we'll talk about today is how do you leverage that power of your data in a data intelligence platform in a way that allows you to take advantage of all of the things that generate a AI are creating. So maybe I'll quickly start and we'll just pose to the group here. Rick, maybe we'll start with you. How are you thinking about data intelligence at Informatica? I know we collaborate on quite a few customers and sort of the scenarios. So we'd love to hear how Informatica is integrating data intelligence into your capabilities. Yeah, absolutely, Robin. And at Informatica, we like to think, talk about the idea that we have AI for data management and data management for AI. You need both sides of the coin from a data intelligence perspective. So we've been very focused on embedding AI in our cloud platforms for years now, right, in terms of traditional AI versus Generative AI. And we're adding in a lot of Generative AI capabilities as well to help assist in accelerating the business data management, simplifying how users interact with their data, how they prepare their data. But at the same time, when you look at creating a foundation with Databricks within Informatica with our intelligent data management cloud, you are looking at establishing a data foundation, right? And that becomes a critical component to enable, to be able to really not just Generative AI outcomes, but Enterprise Grade Generative AI outcomes where you need to create applications that integrate not just public data, not just public Generative AI models, but actually your own enterprise data, your own first-party data, to drive those enterprise grade type applications. Chris, I know from your perspective, I write, you're really focused on making sure the right person has the right access to the right data to be able to sort of run these models. How are you sort of seeing that ecosystem around data intelligence and sort of for your customers? Yeah, we're seeing people wanting to really get into Generative AI for a number of different reasons. And actually, even still combine it with traditional AI because there's still lots of benefits there. With Amida, you know, our focus is really on data security, right? And where we play a big role in kind of helping with some of the issues with Generative AI or even Traditional AI is all in that data security piece. To be able to find and understand where pieces of data that's sensitive within your ecosystem is, like whether it's on a Delta table or an S3 bucket, and then be able to create the rules so that people can only gain access to that data so that we are making sure that data scientists aren't putting proprietary information or PII data or PHI data into a Generative model. That could be really stout for people to be able to then start putting prompts against and that data starts leaking out. So that's one of the key aspects for all of our customers is ensuring that these models are secured up and that, you know, they're not going to be leaking out any type of sensitive information, whether that's kind of business data or just personal information. Yeah, it's so interesting. I think when chat GPT first came out, one of the first, I think headlines that we also was the Samsung, right, case where they essentially put trade secrets into chat GPT and then said, oh my goodness, we've lost our intellectual property rights. So I think every organization absolutely is concerned about that. Connor, Connor, from your perspective, what are you seeing from data IQ? You know, the area that we sort of see the challenge the most is really in that last mile of like, you know, getting the data put together, getting the security on top of it, but that, you know, there's two few people in the organization that can actually like fully utilize this data. And I think, you know, the way that they're putting around that sort of like the, you know, AI for data management and data manager for AI, right? That that's the, I think that the missing gap in this, you know, data intelligence spaces, there's so much good data in these platforms that so few people have the skillset to actually access and be able to use. And so that's where we really sort of try to focus is, how do you bring everybody to the data where you're not pulling data out and sort of pushing it into, you know, desktop systems and things like that where everything is, is, you know, you don't get the governance, you don't have the security, um, that, you know, the platforms like you to provide, but then also bringing people without saying, oh, you want to work with this data, we'll go learn SQL or go learn Python. And now you can come and you can work with all the data. So that's really that focus for us is just, you know, data intelligence really is bringing as many people as possible to the data where it is. But then I think the other piece that, you know, while generative AI is obviously important and a big push right now, it's just one facet of how working with data looks. And so then how do you also be able to work with all of the different sort of data products that we can rate because sometimes a report is fine. And that's all you need. And sometimes you need to do some machine learning and sometimes you need generative AI. And you know, we really want to sort of bring all of those solutions together for everybody able to work with them pretty equally. So that's, that's the sort of focus that we're trying to bring into this space right now. Which I think is what makes the four of us together so amazing, right? If you think about the different personas, I mean, every organization that I'm talking to when I speak to the CEO in the board, it's not just about technology. It's about the people, the process, the technology. How are you going to enable the organization to come along on this journey? And so I think it's really great that collectively we're sort of thinking about all of those personas that might need to interact with the data or deliver value to the business leveraging that data. So it could be everything from the data personas of the data engineers or the data scientists or the data analysts. But it's also the business users, right? I think that's where lots of organizations are really starting to think about pushing the organization forward with innovation, but managing the risk that it represents to natural language and our fact interface with their data from all of their business users. Chris, I know that's really a big space for you is thinking about how do you break down those silos, unlock the power of the data across the organization, but having the right controls in place to make sure that you're protecting those data assets. What are maybe some examples that you could share on sort of what you've seen in that space? Yeah, I mean, actually, you've come to know what Connor said, right? We have a joint customer within the Air Force and I know this is in generative AI or all this stuff that's there. So that basic business reporting, right? But being able to make sure that this customer could actually bring all their tools to the platform which was Databricks and utilizing Delta, they simply just needed a tool that allow people to do some basic data engineering and create reports off of that, right? And the only way they're able to do that was a combination of Databricks, DataIQ, and Immuda to be able to create those policies and automate those policies because security is the number one thing. Like too often I see, I do a lot of work in the Department of Defense where, you know, since 9-11, right, the government's been wanting to share data out, share data out, but when you get into these highly classified environments, right, where you have all these different kind of markings on data and documents and things, they always end up kind of pushing the data to what they call system high, which means that you have to have like the highest security clearance, all those other kinds of stuff to be able to access the data, which is unfortunate because typically that tends to be only 5% of the data and not data holding and you only allow a few people into their versus allowing everyone into the data, allowing them to see the 95% of the data, collaborate on that data because that's where it's valuable, right? And if the data is not being accessed by lots of people, then it doesn't become valuable to the organization, whether you're trying to do basic dashboards, traditional AI, or even generative AI. So you need all those people kind of like those personas from the business people down to the data engineers, being able to access and see that data. It's so funny that we refer to as like legacy or traditional AI, right? The ecosystem's just moving so fast. One of my colleagues refers to it as like good old boring machine learning and I'm like, we're like so few organizations are really doing that even remotely at scale and it's funny to me that it's like it already is sort of it's like, ah that's so passat I'm like yeah, there's still so much value there, but yes it feels like it's moving so fast and it's like that's not even like cool anymore and I'm like, it's still pretty cool. I think it's definitely dealing with those organizations where you walk in and every CEO is like, just let me talk in natural language to my date and sort of talking about, okay, is the data ready for the type of conversations right? Or is it ready for you to be able to do that and then they just sort of what are you talking about? Their team is like, we've been doing all of this legacy AI around IoT or this or that or machine learning to optimize our supply chain and write the CEO has no concept as far as what AI or traditional AI that they've been leveraging. But I think that's interesting about the hype of generative AI. I think it is opening lots of organizations to rethink, do they have the right foundations in place? Do they have the right security and policy and controls? Do they have the right platform in place? Have they really thought about the warehouse and the capability breaking down some of those silos? So Rick, would with you when you think about all of the work, I know that Informatica is done over the last you know decades in this space, how are you really seeing this push organizations to think about the those foundations and having the capability to be able to deliver in some of that? Well, I think Chris actually made a good point about the kind of democratization of data access and making sure you get data in right hand. A big part of that as well is making sure that there's a high degree of data discoverability and I think that's where we look at metadata as being kind of a key foundational element and not just technical metadata, but business metadata describes what's the semantic meaning? What is the state actually meaning and represent the business? What's the quality or fidelity of the data? Can we trust it? Can we rely upon it? And then of course things like as Chris mentioned, we also play in kind of space of who has access to what are the policies enforced on it? What are the different you know protections we need to put as we make data available as other folks? And I think when you when you add up there's kind of this must supply chain of data from finding where it lives to get it to the right right platforms like Databricks to enable these applications. And as you kind of go through that journey, you accumulate this metadata perspective that ultimately becomes things like I can probably refer to as data products right? When I think about an end user looking to consume data, it's your thing you have a shopping experience right? I want to go find my data assets and to make a decision about what's right for me, I need to be able to see data from other users, I need to be able to see key contextual information to kind of make that decision at the point of use to actually use that data set. And we also see that I think in the generative AI space that metadata is also absolutely critical to understand how I'm going to integrate my different data assets with the large language models with you know that public public database model that you know that kind of natural language and the infricing interfaces and how do I put the right data into that so that my generative AI applications also benefit from a trusted data foundation right? I think you know garbage in garbage out some we talked about for years and years in all kinds of concepts, but I think it absolutely applies in Gen AI and can actually create more dramatic outcomes if it's not done correctly or in a negative sense right? If folks don't have the right data foundation. Well I think for us that's the super interesting part right when we made the announcement of the acquisition of mosaic ml last year, it was really about how do we leverage that to allow customers to create their own models on their own data and own that IP leveraging the platform, but the other thing that we talked about that the team made significant progress in my opinion was integrating it into the platform because that metadata has always been right? The labeling categorization of your data has always been a limiting factor for many many organizations on the amount of manual work it would take to even get to that metadata labeling sort of done and so you know for us we've we've leveraged generative AI in the platform to start automating some of those tasks where a person can then validate the column in label or column in row labeling to be able to say is this metadata that we've extracted based on your business semantics accurate right? And sort of calling it the intelligence engine that's part of the data intelligence platform so I think Rick you're absolutely right that those foundations need to be in place but it's interesting to see what is generative AI unlocking in technology with the power to be able to mitigate some of those limits that we've had in creating those foundations in the very first place. I think Connor you're not in I know you've probably seen this quite a bit across data IQ what are you seeing? Well you know and it's funny and and just even my own personal perspective when I sort of think about you know you talked early on Robin around this sort of like how we're using generative AI to make data more accessible and and you know make the power the platforms more powerful and then obviously how we're using our platforms to deliver to the AI. That first one is huge to me because especially when I think about some of the potential that we still really haven't tapped into you know it's like we have some of the code assist stuff and some of the things that are helping to make some of the more technical users able to work a little bit faster but I this is maybe sacrilegious to say from a data scientist but I hate coding and I always have and it's just like not my bag. I'm a mathematician like that's what's sort of my background and it's where I came from so like that's the exciting part is the solving the problems to me like the coding is just a necessary evil and so like to me like some of those the the possibilities of leveraging LLM's to automate away some of the data management away building some of the data pipelines and things like that and and maybe not necessarily you know I'm always skeptical of like how good a result will be and so you know obviously we need the right sort of guardrails and people who can look at what the LLM did or what the model did but there's so much more potential out there and I'm you know I'm really just sort of talking a little bit from the data scientist perspective but you know I poke fun but compared to you know what a business user is doing in excel or you know something like that the scientist already miles ahead so how do we take you know some of the like absurdly complicated things that people will do with spreadsheets a stop doing it on your desktop bring it back to the data bring it back to leveraging the compute and the power of the platforms that we have with the security and all the goodness that we've sort of built into these platforms that today so much of that just gets well it's just fine just give me an extract so that I can take a CSV and go do this on my desktop right so as much as I talk about how much it can help the data scientists they're still already miles ahead and there's so much that we can do for them that 80% of users that don't have any of those skills at all. I would say at least I would love to maybe pull the panelists but I know for me 90% of my conversations are about the people in the process the change management alignment with the business outcomes because this is the shiny new toy that every CEO and board wants to execute across their environment right but they're they're not really sort of thinking about the impact it's going to have and the journey that that organization is going to have to go on to actually sort of leverage it and I think the interesting part I think for me Connor and what you say is it is this risk versus innovation sort of conversation that every organization is having how fast should we allow the organization to innovate because the business users want to get their hands on it they would put trade secrets into chat GPT all day long right if the legal department or the right the government policy office would let them but how do we make sure that as technologists we're helping organizations think about we're still pending you know US legislation the EUA I act has been passed but not enforced yet states are trying to now intervene missing US regulates sorry for the international audience maybe I'll just give a little bit of conduct but US legislation is still pending so we have state legislation passing in fact I was on a panel with state of Virginia or last week where he was saying they've already passed AI legislation at the state level to manage so now all of these poor organizations want to push forward if you're a global organization you're having to take into account all the regulation and legislation that you may not be aware of the yet that really is talking about in the end lineage do you understand the data do you understand where it came from who had access to it what what transformations happened to it what model did it beat into what products did it come out of and so how are how are we as the you know technologists being able to provide this capability to our customers how can we support some of those conversations I mean Chris maybe I'll start with you since you guys have a pretty good handle and you know in history here yeah I mean for me like a lot of this comes down to both data governance and AI governance right yeah there's a lot of stuff we can do with you know the models and things like that but there are still a lot of issues that we haven't gotten passed right so even just things like explainability like can anyone explain how the latest chat GPT comes up with the solution right we can do that with you know a random forest right we can trace exactly where each decision was made and we can explain exactly why this model made this decision there's some things like lime for doing even neural networks to understand how some of those smaller neural networks not like these massive billion parameter that's 7 billion per hour or whatever it is that they're up to at this point like are making those changes things around which you know happens in traditional and gen i i biases like how is this thing trained like those are the things that I think are are going to be really important to actually start unlocking all the kind of use cases that Connor was talking about you know because again we can't have and we've seen like with the compass recindivation the algorithm from years ago we've seen issues with people being denied mortgages issues with health care we're trying to utilize these programs these models to be able to make decisions and without the ability to ensure and put the guardrails in place for things like explainability transparency you know reducing bias in these models like we're not going to be able to kind of get there so that's where really where my focus ends up going is on that data governance because obviously we said earlier garbage in garbage out right we need to make sure that only the authorized data gets put in there but also all those kind of issues with AI that we've been dealing with for a long time yeah I think the other part that's interesting is the rate or pace of innovation we're seeing in models right I think we all sort of watched as uh Chachi BT came out then you had sort of gosh it felt like a barrage of fire across hugging face right of all these new models dbrx was recently announced I think what right really trying to help organizations think about that transparency and explainability because you have to own the model if you're going to be able to explain what happened to it you can't put every use case into a proprietary model that you can't explain some of use cases absolutely right others you're going to have to want to be able to explain that I think Rick from your perspective I know we we've talked about this before how how are you thinking at informatic uh you know making sure that we're creating an ecosystem that's open that allows organizations to you know swap models in and out and be able to use this latest and greatest technology as it comes out without having to replat form all of the foundations yeah and it's a you know I can be touching a lot of good points here around you know AI governance and uh and ultimately you know how does that manifest though in terms of the infrastructure we put in place in terms of the data platforms uh you know ensuring that we have the right not just policies created but also implemented right how do we have the controls in place to actually implement those policies and make them make them real um you know how do we uh but also how do we look at uh you know implementations where you can have folks you know using chain building custom code and you know it can get all of it create a huge mess for them right but how do you ensure that you you actually allow personas uh in IT to build workflows that are repeatable they're well documented they understand how rag chains are being put together uh what data is going into it I think lineage shakes on a whole new meaning right in the world of gendered AI and what it looks like to do is Christopher Point how do you unpack what actually happened right versus a more a broader understanding of just what data sources are involved here and and also looking at by controlling the data sources going in the foundation the trust in that data you know can that allow you to do more with it without having to surely have that full explainability because it is very hard to do with some of these models right and to be able to trace into it um I think the last thing I'd add to from a people process is you know companies defining how they're going to evaluate the efficacy of their applications and the quality of their applications they're producing uh because I think there's a huge amount of potential but what people don't want to do is go build a bunch of applications that create a bunch of failures internally right so that they really want to make sure the expectations are set correctly and what the application is going to do how it's going to perform and how they're going to evaluate the impact to their business right and then track that an ongoing basis as they continue to evolve and enhance those applications yeah I think this goes back to Conor's example right we all have those power users with the Excel spreadsheets from hell that we're trying to figure out how to get out via right into and so I think you're right how do you figure out those right use cases to tackle and measure the return on the investment to be able to deliver against that so I we're going to wrap up and I know I promised you guys I wouldn't ask you where AI was going to be in five years because we have no idea the next six months much less than the next five years so what I'd love to close with is maybe each of us sharing what is an advice or a key point that you would want to leave the audience with as we sort of wrap out so Chris maybe we'll start with you yeah I mean being biased again um I mean because I've been doing a lot of this stuff around kind of the big data analytics thing for the last seven years both from consulting perspective and kind of on the products perspective and where I've always kind of landed on this stuff is that it's really about the governance of the data and as we've advanced with AI the governance of AI and how you actually build out these models so again ensuring that you're bringing in tools like informatica to do the data quality the cataloging and things of that nature bringing us in to do all the security stuff to make sure that you're you know only giving the authorized data right and building out those guardrails like one of the things that we do that's interesting is we create a purpose based control which is like a data use agreement right and so you can actually build out these agreements only give access to data that the data scientists is going to create like a Google model card going to publish out like their test train data going to give you all the metrics like understand exactly what they did to do this to publish it out um it's one of the key places to you know really start to think about super corner if we need to be really focused on educating people how to think about you know evaluate like the do am I am I cool with the data that went into this but then you know does this result make sense right I think that sometimes people just too often either you know hey it's all garbage because I don't trust the AI at all or everything the AI says is gospel and like neither of those are okay like like like the models are sometimes good and sometimes bad and teaching people how to sort of really critically evaluate the output that's coming out of that model but then having a process that sort of says hey this is something that is you know you're using this data to make a small decision for your team like have at it right the stakes are low so you know there's no sensitive data that you're using here there's not not a big deal versus oh this is super sensitive data and you're using it to you know make a decision about a billion dollar you know business segment or something like that like that should have some like really strict processes around sort of that and so it's that upfront making it as easy as possible but on the backend like being really clear instead of making sure people know the dangers of what they're working with but that we've got processes in place to sort of differentiate stuff that can just happen so that we're making it easier for people and then things that have good guardrails where they need to be super absolutely people process platform yeah absolutely yeah I think well Teco and the number of points that were made earlier I do think you know broadly though that generative AI is on the consumer side certainly here to stay right it it drives hugely transformative experiences and just just amazing things right on a database and so I think just like we saw with you know smart phones that consumer usage creates always the enterprise demand right so the enterprise comes next and I do think ratten inflection point where where companies have a strong desire you know I think it's something like 88 90 percent of CIOs serve hate no reason survey we did you know are basically the saying yes we want to do generative AI and and and and use generative AI to transform our business but the points are made earlier certainly a strong people process component and needs to be looked at and addressed kind of up front in that but the other big piece is that data foundation and we we have this tagline we use that he says you know everyone's ready for AI accept your data right and and that has perennially been a challenge for analytics and now in the generative AI world is companies really still don't have a great handle on all their data assets right so there's still a tremendous need to put in data intelligence driven platforms meditated driven platforms they'll have the harness all their data ensure they can create transform that data and create that fundamental trusted data foundation that then they can start saying okay now we've got our people process we've got our data ready now we can start really implementing and iterating and experiments with generative AI and creating some amazing application you can imagine you know companies doing you know they're supply chain analysts right and they're looking at different data trying to identify new suppliers that maybe looking at public data but they're also looking their internal data you know what kind of products need what's out of stock what's in stock you know to bring those together into a natural language type experience and conversation with their data environments make decisions on sourcing for example be hugely transformative but it only works if the supply chain data is accurate right behind the scenes so again i think it's that it's about about that they go hand in hand it's it's true in the analytics world it's true in the generative world it is about marrying up people process adopting something very very new and transformative but making sure your data is ready to drive that absolutely and then i think the one that i would say would be build for for the future but don't wait for the future right i have too many organizations i think are just sitting to wait and see what happens in my opinion you'll be left behind by the competition right you you will be every organization is not going to wait however you don't want to constantly think about you know creating new products and tools and and platforms and technologies that require you to re-educate, re-enable your people every time something new is coming as fast as the space is moving so think about these open collaborative ecosystems that exist like data breaks and chromatic them you know and data queue together i really help you empower your organization to not have to rebuild every time the technology continues to evolve so that you can deliver value for your consumers and citizens today and with that thank you so much and i'm going to go ahead and send it back to Ann. Robyn thanks so much for leading such a great discussion around data and and AI each of you offered such positive and thoughtful considerations real world considerations around what you need to do to get these off the ground and the unloved your closing statement just get moving um first i want to thank data bricks for making this webinar possible and obviously thanks to each of our experts for sharing your time and your insights around data intelligence Robyn's utara at data bricks rick tam daniels with in kumbatica chris brown and imuda conor jensen with data iq and thanks to our audience you bake it possible i recommend that you look at the additional resources that are available in the console for example there's a link there to get more information about the data plus a i summit which has over 500 sessions from researchers experts and open source contributors the topics there are going to cover everything from data warehousing latest developments in gen ai on behalf of cio data bricks i'm yantieler saying thanks for watching